The primary goal of stock picking is to achieve returns that surpass the market average. If you successfully identify and invest in outperforming stocks, you can potentially earn higher returns than passive investors who track the market average.

However, many investors would argue that one cannot consistently beat the market. According to the Efficient Market hypothesis, stock prices already reflect all available information, making it nearly impossible to consistently beat the market by picking individual stocks.

Investing in individual stocks, especially those of a single company like Netflix, can be riskier than diversifying. While there's potential for higher returns, there's also a higher risk of losing your investment if the company faces challenges.

So while we at Cognitio do not recommend cherry-picking your stocks, trying to figure out if a specific stock outperformed the market is an interesting exercise.

## Surplus Returns

In stock valuation, surplus returns, or excess returns, refer to the excess return generated by a particular stock above and beyond the overall market return. By comparing a stock's performance to a benchmark, typically the S&P 500 index, which represents the market as a whole, one can discover whether a company has outperformed the market or not.

The last year has been an interesting one for Netflix, so let's find out whether it has produced surplus returns.

## Determine the Benchmark

Our first step will be to pick a benchmark index that represents the market or asset class we are trying to compare. Since Netflix is a U.S. stock, the S&P 500 index will be used.

With Cognitio, we can easily import the data of the S&P 500's stock price throughout the last year, and then apply a **Growth Over Time** transform function to it.

<iframe src="https://sigma-lab.netlify.app/plot/2541c2e6-4e58-4e89-aef6-0c41c544fe00/embed"></iframe>

## Calculate Netflix's Returns

The next step is to import the data of **Netflix, Inc. (NFLX)** over the last year and apply the **Growth Over Time** transform function as before to determine Netflix's performance during that period.

<iframe src="https://sigma-lab.netlify.app/plot/ad57a134-2470-41d2-931a-ecc1c35ed4ea/embed"></iframe>

## Calculate Surplus Returns

To calculate the surplus returns, subtract the benchmark's total returns from the stock's total returns:

> Surplus Returns = Stock's Total Returns - Benchmark's Total Returns

It is easy to merge two data-plots in Cognitio. Simply create a new plot and select two data sources. Then choose the **Subtract values** option as the merge function and subtract the Netflix Returns plot value from the S&P 500 Returns plot value.

<iframe src="https://sigma-lab.netlify.app/plot/e618d687-8ba7-4b43-8c52-3d1602b042d5/embed"></iframe>

The chart above shows Netflix has outperformed the market by 31.7% during the past year!

## Conclusion

Positive surplus returns indicate that the stock outperformed the benchmark, while negative surplus returns mean the stock underperformed the benchmark.

Selectively choosing "good" stocks can be a rewarding approach for investors who are willing to put in the time and effort required for thorough research and monitoring. However, it also carries higher risks and may not consistently yield better results compared to passive, diversified investment strategies, such as index fund investing. It's essential to carefully consider your financial goals, risk tolerance, and level of expertise before deciding on an investment strategy.
